I want to thank you all for being here
and I have to say I think with social
distancing that the media has been much
nicer I don't know what it is all these
empty fees in between chairs we probably
shouldn't have anybody sitting behind
you either you know I should probably go
back but I love it it's so much nicer
but I shouldn't say that because you'll
get me now
thank you all for being here and we
continue our relentless effort to defeat
the Chinese virus before I begin I want
to start by announcing that today we are
bringing home another American citizen
it was a big thing very big on our fate
Corey is on his way back to the United
States after being imprisoned in Lebanon
since September of 2019 he's battling
late-stage cancer mr. Hikari will now be
able to receive the much-needed care and
treatment in the United States we've
been working very hard to get him freed
then he's finally able to have his
entire family at his side so I'm very
grateful to the Lebanese government they
worked with us and we are very proud of
his family they stood by him so strongly
and they are thrilled the United States
has no higher priority than the safety
and well-being of our citizens we've
gotten a tremendous number of hostages
out as you know I think we're 42 and oh
and Robert O'Brien as you know was or
chief negotiator for a large part of it
in fact did so well that now we have him
in a different position so I want to
thank and congratulate Robert and his
team and I want to let everyone know
that recovering Americans held captive
and imprisoned abroad continues to be a
top priority for my administration we
have one young gentleman Austin Tice and
we're working very hard with Syria to
get him out we hope the Syrian
government will do that
counting on them to do that we've
written a letter just recently but he's
been there for a long time and was
captured long ago Austin Tice his
mother's probably watching and she's a
great lady
and we're doing the best we can so Syria
please work with us and we would
appreciate your letting them out of you
think about what we've done we've gotten
rid of the Isis Caliphate in Syria we've
done a lot for Syria we have to see if
they're going to do this so it would be
very much appreciated if they would let
Austin Tice out immediately as you know
my administration is working every day
to protect American people and the
American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses big thing we're
providing sick leave and family medical
leave to those affected by the virus and
more health is on the way as we speak
our entire team headed by secretary
minuchin is on the hill we're working
with Democrats and Republicans and
there's a lot of goodwill going on this
was something that happened that was
some people would say an act of God I
don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as as something that just
surprised the whole world and if people
would have known about it it could have
stopped been stopped in place it could
have been stopped right where it came
from China if we would have known about
it if they would have known about it but
now the whole world almost is inflicted
with this horrible with this horrible
virus and it's too bad it's too bad
because we never had an economy as good
as the economy we had just a few weeks
ago but we'll be back and I actually
think we'll be back stronger than ever
before because we learned a lot during
this
I also just invoked the defense
production Act to help facilitate
distribution of essential supplies if
necessary we're working with Congress to
provide major additional relief to the
workers small businesses and the hardest
hit industries we want to make sure that
everybody is able to continue on so that
when we recover all of these companies
and these great businesses both very
very small and very very large they're
not going to be broken up and you'd have
to put them back together that would
take a long time because we really
believe in I believe in the V curve I
believe it's going to go when this is
when this is defeated this hidden
scourge is defeated I think we're going
to go up very rapidly our economy and
get back to where it was and beyond
today I want to share with you exciting
progress that the FDA is making with the
private sector as we slash red tape like
nobody has ever done it before somebody
was on yesterday or one of the networks
and said that there's never been a
president even close that's been able to
do what I've done in slashing all of the
red tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time
it was just a few weeks and that would
have taken years to do not so long ago
as we race to develop a vaccine we're
also pursuing antiviral therapies and
that's what really we're going to be
talking to you about today that's the
purpose of being up here today and to me
that's even more important that you
vaccines by its nature you have to have
long tests because you have to make sure
what goes into somebody's body is not
going to do destruction do bad things so
you need long tests
and they're doing great with the
vaccines but there's still a long
process but the therapies are something
we can move on much faster potentially
and the treatments that we'll be able to
reduce the severity or duration of the
symptoms to make people better
essentially with looking at things to
make people better or at the very
earliest stages they wouldn't even know
they had it and that's where I believe
it's going to work even the best the FDA
Commissioner Steven on who's with us is
fantastic and he's been working 24 hours
a day he's been he's worked like
probably as hard or harder than anybody
in this in the group other than maybe
Mike Pence or me and what the FDA is
doing is incredible they've done things
in times that were not even thinkable
and I've directed the FDA to eliminate
outdated rules and bureaucracy so this
work can proceed rapidly quickly and I
mean fast and we have to remove every
barrier there are a lot of barriers that
were unnecessary and they've done that
to get the rapid deployment of safe
effective treatments and we think we
have some good answers we'll find out
very very soon clinical trials are
already underway for many new therapies
and we're working on scaling these to
allow many more Americans to access
different drugs that have shown really
good promise we've had some really good
promise we will do so in a way that lets
us continue to collect good data to know
which medicines are safe and which
medicines are working the best we have a
couple that where we're in really good
shape on and that's for immediate
delivery
comedian like as fast as we can get it
the FDA has also approved compassionate
use for a significant number of patients
you know what that means we're also
reviewing drugs that are approved abroad
or drugs approved here for other uses
and you know one of the things that I'm
most proud of that I got was right to
try that's where somebody who's ill
somebody who's very sick terminally ill
usually in past administrations we
signed us a year and a half ago you
wouldn't be able to even think about
getting any of the drugs that may be
showing great promise now and they've
been trying for many decades to get this
approved and it sounds simple but it's
not because it's liability involved and
lots of other things and I was able to
get it approved working with Congress
right to try this is beyond right to try
what we're talking about today is beyond
right to try right to try a spin by the
way tremendous success people are living
now that had no chance of living where
we take treatments that would things
that that would have to go through years
of a process and if somebody was
terminally ill and I would say why
wouldn't they be able to try this Ted go
to Asia they go to Europe they'd go all
over the world to try and find something
or some people have that no money we go
home to die they go home to die they had
no hope right to try as been an
incredible success but this is beyond
right to try if treatment is known to be
safe in Europe Japan or other nations
are effective against the virus will use
that information to protect the health
and safety of American people nothing
will stand in our way as we pursue any
avenue to find what best works against
this horrible virus now a drug called
chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine so chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong rightis somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time so we know that if it if
if things don't go as planned it's not
going to kill anybody when you go with a
brand new drug you don't know that
that's gonna happen you have to see and
you have to go long tests but this has
been used in different forms very
powerful drug in different forms and
it's shown very encouraging very very
encouraging early results and we're
going to be able to make that drug
available almost immediately and that's
where the FDA has been so great they
they've gone through the approval
process it's been approved and they did
it they took it down from many many
months to immediate so we're gonna be
able to make that drug available by
prescription or States I spoke with
Governor Cuomo about it at great length
last night
and he wants to be right on on the he
wants to be first on the line and so I
think that's a tremendous is tremendous
promise based on the results and other
tests this tremendous promise and
normally the FDA would take a long time
to approve something like that and it's
it was approved very very quickly and
it's now approved by prescription
individual states will handle it they
can handle it and doctors will handle it
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study it there there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's REM desser varam
d'Ivoire and that's a drug used for
other purposes that's been out and said
very good results for other purposes but
it seems to have a very good result
having to do with this virus and that
drug also has been approved or very
close to approved in that case by the
FDA and I can't tell you how much we
appreciate what the FDA these people are
incredible Patriots and the job that
Stephen Han is doing dr. Han was one of
the most respected doctors in the
country by the way well we took him I
said you sure you want to do this now we
didn't know that this was going to be in
the playlist what happened here but he
really has stepped up to the plate well
who you are words really a chink is here
but I'm not supposed to do that getting
a lot of trouble if I didn't but he's
been fantastic and I thank you doctor
he's gonna speak right after I'm
finished so Regeneron again and some is
a company that's done fantastically well
as I understand with Ebola and some
other things great company and they're
looking at some very promising events
also so you have rimmed Esav voir and
you have cleric wind and hydro
hydroxychloroquine so those are two that
are out now essentially approved for
prescribed use and I think it's gonna be
very exciting I think it could be a
game-changer and maybe not and maybe not
but I think it could be based on what I
see it could be a game-changer very
powerful they're very powerful so I want
every American to know that we're doing
everything we can and these actions are
important next steps I mean for the FDA
to act the way they acted with this kind
of speed is an incredible thing normally
they'd say well we can have it by next
year or we could have it by in two years
from now you understand this is the way
normally it's like years and years and
years they had it immediately based on
the fact that it's been used for other
things totally unrelated things we
believe these therapeutics and others
under evaluation right now will be able
to provide relief to many Americans we
really hope that's going to be this
could be a tremendous breakthrough
tremendous breakthrough and we will work
toward a much needed to vaccine in the
future as I said and what we're doing
with the FDA is so exciting in so many
other fields so many things are
happening it's a very exciting time for
for medicine and we appreciate that the
American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it for a long time
and that means democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good in the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going
here's a case we're paying a lot of
money to stop things because we don't
want people to be together so that this
virus doesn't continue onward so there's
never been anything like this in history
there's never been a nobody's ever seen
anything like this but we're doing the
right thing we have to get rid up in our
big war is not a it's not a financial
war it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you got these
two elements these two very important
drugs passed thank you very much thank
you mr. president I want to thank you
for your leadership during this corona
virus outbreak and thank you for the
kind words about the FDA staff we have
10,000 scientists doctors and others and
more than that working around the clock
to aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so um before the president nominated me
and I was confirmed as commissioner food
and drugs I was a cancer doctor and I've
sat across from countless number of
patients and had to talk to them about
their diagnosis and their treatment and
one thing that was really important is
to provide hope I have great hope for
how we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as Commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA the FDA
is committed to continuing to provide
regulatory flexibility and guidance but
let me make one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide this support for the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up at incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America approach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this every day we
need we need to make sure that these the
see of new treatments will get the right
drug to the right patient at the right
dosage at the right time as an example
we may have the right drug but
not being the appropriate dosage form
right now and that may do more harm than
good those are the things that that's
our job to look at and that's why it's
really important we have these dedicated
professionals looking at these aspects
of therapeutic development at the same
time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things there's
no promise the American people is we
will collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be let me
tell you about a few things that we're
currently working on and this is a plan
that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question
that needs to be answered and asked and
answered let me give you another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA has
been working
sometime on this if you've been exposed
to coronavirus and you're better you
don't have the virus in your blood we
could collect the blood now this is a
possible treatment this is not a proven
treatment just want to emphasize that
collect the blood concentrate that and
have the ability once it's pathogen free
that is virus free be able to give that
to other patients and the
immunoglobulins the immune response
could potentially provide a benefit to
patients it's another thing that we're
looking at over the next couple weeks
we'll have more information that we're
really pushing hard to try to accelerate
that that's in the sort of more medium
short term and that'll be a bridge to
other therapies that will take us three
to six months to develop and this is a
continuous process there is no beginning
and end to each of this this is you know
we're pushing this through the other
great thing about the grade of
innovators of America some of them tell
us it's taken us years years to develop
therapies they're looking at pushing
that to the months period of time and
we're trying to provide them the
regulatory flexibility but at the same
time the scientific oversight to make
sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine it's
exciting work and the president is right
this is record time for the development
of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for Co
benign
thank you
Thank You mr. president the White House
coronavirus task force met this morning
and on this very first day of springg we
continue to make steady progress toward
president Trump's objective not only to
marshal all the resources of the federal
government every state government every
every local health official but also to
harness the power of the American
private sector and activities over the
last day reflect all of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response Act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governors we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA an
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's Legend
Nations estate and private labs are now
required by law to report all
coronavirus testing directly to the CDC
which will give the American public and
also give our researchers timely and
important information it's important for
every American to remember that if you
don't have symptoms you don't need to
get a test we want to make sure the
testing is available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the coronavirus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern she'll explain the
importance of taking into account our
new testing system as new data arrives
over the next several days on supplies a
priority the president has given to our
task force we continue to work with
healthcare providers businesses and
state leadership to identify available
supplies not merely in the federal
stockpile but much more importantly
available across the private sector
we're encouraged to see companies like
Honeywell and 3m that I visited a few
short weeks ago take advantage of the
changes in the law last night that allow
the sale of industrial masks directly to
hospitals those companies have now
greatly increased by the tens of
millions their production of so-called
n95 masks that will give our health care
workers the protection that they need to
minister to those that are dealing with
the symptoms or the disease of
coronavirus I'm following the signing of
last night's bill all of those masks now
have liability protection and the
companies can sale industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president we spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with
our local healthcare officials on the
subject of ventilators we're working
with health care providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that being can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together and before I step away and
and give the podium back to the
President and to dr. Burks I want to
call every American's attention again to
the president's 15 days to slow the
spread you continue to hear one case
after another one city after another
where people are putting into practice
the principles that the president
outlined this Monday and make no mistake
about it that while for the American
people as a whole the risk of serious
illness remains low these guidelines
should be practiced by every American in
every community not only to lessen the
spread of the corona virus but to
protect the most vulnerable among us and
I think Americans with their with from
their hearts are not only practicing
these principles of social distancing
and avoiding social gatherings of more
than 10 people using drive throughs at
restaurants to protect their own health
and the health of their family but
they're also recognizing that that no
American wants to inadvertently convey
the coronavirus to someone for whom the
consequences could be quite serious at
the president's direction will continue
to marshal all the resources of
government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governor's
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
thank you mister
thank you Thank You mr. president
so I know you're watching the data
carefully you can see the dramatic
increases in the number of new cases
based on our ability to test additional
people and this will continue over the
next two to three days as we begin to
have backlogs reduced of the testing you
all have heard the antidotes of people
waiting five or six days for their test
results we are moving through all of
that as well as testing individuals I
really want to applaud the frontline
healthcare workers the nurses and the
doctors and the testers that have really
prioritized and the American people who
have a prioritize those with symptoms
the number of tests positive is
increasing that is a dramatically
important signature that everybody is
doing their job those with mild symptoms
are staying home self isolating those
with serious symptoms are coming forward
to getting testing our tests positive
rates are now into the 10 to 11 percent
range that still means that 90% of the
illness is out there even the severe
ones are not covet 19 I know many of you
are looking at the state level data
still over 50% of the cases come from
three states this is why we continue to
prioritize testing in those states in
addition 50% of the cases come from ten
counties we're a very large country with
very many counties and I just want to
applaud the local and state governments
that are implementing their emergency
operation centers and plans to ensure I
want to also really thank the health
care workers that have been asked to
reduce all elective surgeries medical
and dental visits this will dramatically
increase the number of ventilators that
are available in hospitals but also in
ambulatory surgical centers that can be
converted and utilized and also the to
the construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits and
their masks to contribute them to the
healthcare sector
the President's request to make this
available in that legislation changes
the ability and increases our
availability immediately by than 75 to
90 percent range because the amount of
construction use of those elements thank
you thank you very much
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president
uh-huh today you heard a wonderful
announcement from the FDA and I just
want to give a shout out to Steve dr.
Hahn and the folks at the FTA were about
what several hundred of my commissioned
Corps officers work you're right mr.
president they are tireless they're
doing things that have never been done
before to bring the most most prudent
advances to the American people but I
want to talk about something different
briefly we know many of you are home
practicing the president's guidelines
for social distancing but one thing we
should all consider especially our
Millennials in Gen Z is donating blood
as an anesthesiologist who still
practices at Walter Reed taking care of
our wounded warriors and our soldiers I
know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want America to know the blood donation
is safe and blood centers are taking
extra precautions at this time based on
new CDC recommendations including
spacing beds 6 feet apart disinfecting
surfaces between patient's temperature
checking staff and encouraging donors to
make appointments ahead of time so we
can space them out social distancing
does not have to mean social
disengagement so give blood today you'll
feel good about it and you'll be helping
your country and your community during
this crisis and you might even save a
life
yeah please mr. president switching to
the the Epis to boost the economy with
the measures for Congress will you
guarantee that the money the billions
the tens of billions of dollars hundreds
of billions of dollars even that's gonna
go but to these industries will not go
to executive bonuses or to more stock
buybacks well we don't want that in fact
some companies as you know did stock
buybacks and I was never happy with that
it's very hard to tell them not to but I
would tell them not to I would say I
don't like it for that reason some did
and it turned out that they could have
waited a long time it would have been
much better off if they did you could
say no this morning can go I'm making
I've been you know take so many many
people in this case to tango but as far
as I'm concerned that conditions like
that would be okay with me question for
you and then a question for dr. klahn
you enabled I guess is probably the best
way to put it the defense production act
yesterday but you don't pull the trigger
on it no because we hope we're not going
to need that you're getting calls on
Capitol Hill from the Democratic
leadership pull the trigger on what's
the rationale for not do first of all
governor's are supposed to be doing a
lot of this work and they are doing a
lot of this work federal government's
not supposed to be out there buying vast
amounts of items and then shipping you
know we're not a shipping clerk the
governors are supposed to be as with
testing the governor suppose are
supposed to be doing it will help out
and will help out wherever we can and we
can buy in volume and in some cases
great volume with the masks as an
example which were really a problem we
have helped out and they're right now
millions of masks being made but this is
really for the local governments
governors and people within the state
depending on the way they divided it up
and they'll do that and they're doing a
very good job of it where you have a
problem with ventilators we're working
very hard trying to find nobody in their
wildest dreams would have ever thought
that we need tens of thousands of
ventilators this is something that's
very unique to this to what happened
conditions would you put the defense
production act into action well if we
were desperately in need of something
and we frankly will know about that very
shortly we want to be ahead of we don't
want to do it as it happens but before
it happens we're going to know a lot
over the next two or three days we'll
know a lot any idea when REM disappear
will be available to the market and are
there any drugs in the pipeline that you
believe could qualify for a treatment I
updated so with respect to the first
question I'm on prohibited by law to
disclose confidential commercial
information what I can tell you is we're
working very closely with the company on
this and we'll have additional
information they will relatively soon
yes there are drugs in the pipeline
we're looking at everyone everyone on
this dais gets calls every day as to all
of our people at the FDA about potential
therapeutic options we are looking at
every single one of them we're trying to
find that out this has been going on for
years many years they've been trying to
find Austin Tice he was in Syria as you
know his mother is an incredible woman
and I'm doing it for him but I'm doing
it for his mother his brothers an
incredible woman who's desperate to find
her son and I'm not confirming a lot but
if he is alive if we would like very
much to get him back quickly okay and on
coronavirus speaking of shortages of
supplies the CDC has put out guidelines
for hospitals that are dealing with a
shortage of mass to use them beyond
their shelf life you can reuse them
instead of getting new ones and in a
worst-case scenario use a bandana
instead of
masks how is that acceptable at all well
I haven't seen that but I will let Mike
answer that question by specially I'm
happy to mr. president I just I can't
emphasize enough the incredible progress
that was made with the passage of the
legislation last night and President had
me go to Minnesota and meet with 3m that
manufactures these in 95 mass a few
weeks ago and we learned of their
production at that facility of 35
million mass a month less than five
million of those were qualified to be
sold to hospitals so President worked
with Republican and Democrat leadership
we've extended the liability protection
so now that all the industrial masks
that are manufactured as n95 s are now
available to hospitals and we're seeing
a dramatic increase in production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another 120 million mass per year 3m is
increasing output to 420 million masks
per year
we really we've put a priority at the
president's direction on making sure
those that are providing health care
services to America have the protection
to keep themselves and their families
safe and with the legislation last night
with the incredible response among these
great private-sector companies and as we
mentioned repeatedly with construction
companies around America heating the
president's called to donate their
industrial mass to hospitals is
happening all over America we know will
meet that need
or at least we start getting them ready
well as I mentioned 3m is increasing
their output 420 million a year at
production and January they make 35
million per month at that facility and
we're we're prioritizing the
distribution of those but the other
thing and we'll emphasize this with
governor's this afternoon is we're
working with governor's to make sure
that the healthcare providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded thanks to a bipartisan
legislation and the accomplishment the
president and the response by these
companies is making more mass available
and we're going to make sure healthcare
providers are purchasing those and the
federal government will also make sure
that our stockpile is properly reflects
those increases as well they're
available now the 3m facility that I was
at told me in that in January they went
to full production on 35 million masks
the legislative change means that all 35
million of those that started to be
produced at full capacity in January can
now be sold to hospitals that's the
distinction here it's a very important
change and it's part of the way the
president has been engaging the private
sector pushing the kind of regulatory
reform and the kind of liability reform
that has greatly expanded the
availability of mass so they're in the
marketplace now we're gonna make it
clear to governor's as we made it clear
to healthcare providers in conference
calls yesterday that those resources are
now there we've vastly increased the
supply of medical mass and we're going
to continue to put a priority on making
sure that we're calling on industry at
every level calling on major suppliers
that the president met with this week to
make sure that those personal protective
equipment are there
liability to the company - they had a
big problem with liability and much of
it had to do with the liability to the
company thank you - for you in one part
dr. Han the American Hospital
Association just told NBC News that they
need a hundred billion dollars in order
to address shortages in equipment and
other infrastructure there you just
signed two legislative packages they say
it didn't directly give money to address
this issue why not and will you commit
to making that issue directly with them
and that's a separate issue but we're
looking at that issue very directly
we're working with Democrats and
Republicans or that we're looking at
that very specifically you bottom-line
people when can Americans expect their
lives to go back to normal will that not
happen until there's a vaccine
I hope person will see this is uncharted
territory as you know we think we have
ideas it doesn't help to say what the
ideas I would hope very soon we're we've
pulled together as a nation people are
for the most part doing what they're
supposed to be doing the social
distancing is very interesting a whole
new term that's become a hot it's become
somewhat of a hot term but people are
listening and they're and they're really
doing a great job this country is an
amazing country I think you're up to 141
different countries right now so it's
very uncharted territory could have
could have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it a number of
months before people started reading
about it excuse me excuse me before we
started reading about we could have it
could have been stopped in its tracks
unfortunately they didn't decide to make
it public but the whole world is
suffering because of it
did have a sense that this was a
pandemic it was coming so why was the
United States not the only thing we
weren't prepared for was the the media
the media has not treated it fairly I'll
tell you how prepared I was I called for
a band from people coming in from China
long before anybody thought it was in
fact it was your network I believe they
called me a racist because I did that it
was many of the people in the room they
called me racist and other words because
I did that because I went so early so
when you say we weren't prepared had I
lived these tens of thousands of people
come in from China a day we would have
had something right now that would have
been you wouldn't have even recognized
it compared to where we are how many
people have passed away how many people
have died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
band now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's true but they don't want
to write about it for other personal
protective gloves other equipment
governors are saying they don't have
access to respirators and they're
terrified what is your register supposed
to get it the states is supposed to get
it but we're helping the states look for
years they bought them and now all of a
sudden they're coming to the federal
government we're working with the states
we're working with the governors we're
working with everybody the relationships
are great one of the things that
happened this morning I spoke with Micky
Arison of Carnival Cruise Lines
and he's going to make ships available
so in addition to the big medical ships
that you have coming if we should need
ships with lots of rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Micky Arison
that's Carnival Cruise Lines
about invoking the defense production
I've done it if we find that we need
something that we will do that and you
don't know what we've done you don't
know whether or not we've ordered you
don't know if we've invoked it you don't
know what's been ordered what's not
going on it I can only tell you I can
only tell you that as an example masks
nobody ever heard of the number of mass
that's been ordered they're being made
now and many are available now but
people I think in the media probably
don't know that could you explain the
gap and for the American people and what
you're saying here today about there
being tens of thousands of tests
available about how they're being a huge
amount of masks available and what we're
seeing on the ground which is really the
opposite of that people are people are
saying that they can't get tested even
when they have symptoms people are
saying that they doctors are telling us
they don't have access to vital
equipment can you explain that that gap
well I can't I cannot explain a gap I'm
hearing very good things on the ground
and we're dealing with love they had a
ramp up they had an obsolete system and
they had a system simultaneously that
was not meant for this it wasn't meant
for this nobody knew they'd be a
pandemic or an epidemic of this
proportion nobody's ever seen anything
like this before I can tell you that
what we're doing is we're working with
local governments with states governors
even mayors on getting them to be able
to get what they need and the system is
starting to work out very well but we
had a breaker system like breaking an
egg because the system we had was
obsolete and didn't work and that was a
system we inherited and now we have
something that's really been very good
and certainly going to be great for the
future - yep
your supporters about a poor bitch bill
Oh
in particular senator micron said that
this could harken back to 2008 where
we're picking winners and losers and he
indicated that he and his colleagues may
not be comfortable with that will you
say this well we don't want to pick
winners and losers we want everybody to
benefit we want I think more than
anything else the workers to benefit and
sometimes for the worker to benefit you
have to go through the company because
they have thousands of workers and if
the company goes out of business no
fault of their own those workers aren't
going to be able to receive a check so
where look our ultimate goal or the
people our ultimate goal of the great
people of this country and we will have
things worked out I think that are going
to be very well it's a very complex
formula you understand that very complex
but it's working out I think it's going
to be very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please the
State Department is gonna put out an
advisory telling Americans not to travel
overseas at all are you putting in an
overseas travel but we're speaking with
the State Department later I can't say
right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet president I wanted to ask
dr. Cohn about today's announcement in
five years thank you so much I wanted to
ask out rent rent severe if I pronounced
that correctly
can you tell say is it currently
approved for use on the virus so REM des
aveer and it's a drug made by Gilead
that's been in the press it is currently
in clinical trials here and around the
world we have also made it available by
that approach that I told you called
compassionate use where a doctor could
ask the FDA for that and the really
positive thing about that that gives it
rapidly to a doctor and a patient but it
allows us to collect the data because
what we really need to do is understand
what the data and science are in order
to make the appropriate decision about
safety and effectiveness so how do you
just make sure that it is safe and I
is there any concern at all that it will
be safe considering that it's not going
through the normal process and and could
potentially cause negative effects dr.
pouchy earlier talked about we do not
want to put out anything that could
cause a negative effects is there any
concern about those kind of things we
witness drugs yeah thank you for that
question because I just want to be clear
about this
Ramdev severe is going through the
normal process we are using our internal
processes at FDA to set up with the
company the protocols to actually
collect the data and you're right we
need to actually know about the safety
and the effectiveness and that's done
through the clinical trial process so
it's those data that are going to inform
the decisions that are ultimately made
about safety and efficacy this is an
unprecedented situation this is a really
significant time and one thing that with
the president's leadership FDA has done
is said okay how do we approach these
extraordinary times with extraordinary
measures knowing that we have a sacred
trust with the American people about
safety and efficacy but still at the
same time enable these treatments to get
into patients and that's what we're
doing the doctors how likely is it that
the 15 day guidance that you would
extend before Tuesday they will have to
say well we'll have indications later on
dr. Bergson became a bit there are three
stays in ten counties if I got that
right
we're fifty percent of the cases our
focus should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place I
think they actually are doing a lot I
mean they I know New York is working
very diligently been very strong
I assume San Francisco's one of the
areas in Los Angeles and the state of
Washington obviously that's one that has
to be up there they're all working very
hard to to quarantine or words just
about the equivalent of quarantine plan
serves more government workers
moving for the government as well to
start doing more teleworking we are and
we're doing we're using the medical term
of telemedicine and it's been incredibly
busy and really you know what people
don't have to ever eat some people can't
do it anyway they can't get up they
can't see a doctor but we're using this
and it's been telehealth different names
and I will tell you that it's been
really successful it's helped a lot of
people out where they don't have to and
they can't and even from a safety reason
if they are positive they are if they
are feeling poorly they can't do it or
we don't want them transmitting anything
to anybody else on China they reported
for the first time since the outbreak no
new cases over a 24-hour period do you
have any reason to disbelieve them and
second to that the National Security
Council yesterday put out a tweet very
critical of the Chinese government
saying the Chinese Communist Party
suppressed initial reports and the
Chinese virus and punished doctors and
journalists causing Chinese and
international experts to miss critical
opportunities to prevent a global
pandemic could you expel it would have
much better if we had known about this a
number of months earlier it could have
been contained to that one area in China
where it started and certainly the world
is paying a big price for what they did
and the world is paying a very big price
but not for not letting them come out
everybody knows that we all know that as
far as as far as believing what they're
putting out now I hope it's true who
knows but I hope it's true
quickly a question for you and also to
the doctor if possible
you've been talking about China quite a
bit and you've been talking about the
Chinese virus how if you have heard
about this on day one and had more
information possibly you could have
stopped every difference are you
thinking about any types of
repercussions for China and are you also
rethinking sort of the supply lines for
our manufacturing industry I don't want
to comment on that right now I have a
question for you and also a question for
dr. Burks at you American workers across
the country are losing their jobs an
unprecedented rate and your former
economist said we could see some of the
worst job numbers ever is the government
prepared to see this spike in
unemployment no worst-case scenario you
would have terrible job numbers if we
can get this thing wrapped up and
finished earlier things will go very
nicely and one of the things they're
working as you know one of the elements
that is being worked on very much so in
the hill is to keep the jobs going so
that when we do get rid of the virus
we're going to be able to just really I
think go like a rocket I think the
economy is going to be fantastic know
when he said that he was using that as
the ultimate bad outcome I don't think
anybody believes that's going to happen
members of Congress are now being tested
positive for members of Congress are not
being tested positive for echovirus and
you have almost 2,000 or self-quarantine
do you have any guidance for Congress
should they I know all of them and I
don't know if they're sitting like you
people are sitting you're actually
sitting too close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just begin a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close Yukie
you should leave immediately but but
look look I know all of them they tested
positive hopefully they're all going to
get better and it's one of those things
it's Congress
I know some were they tested positive
they're in quarantine and I know Lindsey
and many others are they they didn't
test it but until they got the result
they put themselves in quarantine
a number of people in Congress right now
are in quarantine they don't know the
results when they get the result they'll
leave this stay there and get better
because people get better I mean most
people are getting better most by far
the people are you get better does it
mean it's not a tough one it is a tough
one but now when they many people in
Congress have felt not perfect or they
met somebody that wasn't perfect it
turned out to be positive and they've
put themselves in quarantine and I think
I think Congress has behaved
unbelievably well in that regard what is
happening the economy do you think a
trillion dollar stimulus is enough well
know about that later Oh we'll see what
happens it depends how long so much
depends on what's going on in this room
in terms of the medical if we can stop
it in its tracks the virus it's plenty
if we can't we'll have to go back and
talk do you
the idea of the government taking an
equity stake in certain companies I do I
really do people are coming
people are coming in for money in some
cases no fault of their own but in some
cases where they did certain things over
the course of the years including by
buying back stock you know they bought
back stock and they paid a high price
for it as it turned out but maybe I view
that as a little bit differently than
somebody that didn't and somebody that
built plants all over the United States
of which there were plenty of them too
airlines are Boeing or what what do you
think we will be helping the airline
industry we will be helping the cruise
ship industry we probably will be
helping the hotel industry will probably
be where jobs are created you don't want
to lose industries like this these are
incredible industries you can't lose
them so we'll be focused on many
industries and I have to say I can't say
that struggle enough we will be helping
small businesses that's where it's
complicated because a lot of small you
know that's the engine of the of the
country we will be helping small
business these will be birds that you
need to pause this one trillion dollar
stimulus package for the economy do you
expect this to slow down the delivery of
checks for American families and are you
considering any new executive action
that could be we're looking at a couple
of things that I could do hopefully we
won't need it but we can do was there's
a lot of executive power if we don't
have to use it that would be a good
thing not a bad thing yeah please Thank
You mr. president one for you and
potentially as well one for a doctor
dr. Adams right now the economy is
essentially ground to a halt thanks for
telling us your previous stores have
closed Travel has slowed down but what's
the rush deflation we know that
everybody in the room knows it the
question is how long should those who
are either not working right now or
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs as it stands
at this moment to play out and for for
the doctors behind you be able to tell
you that very I think in the near future
we'll see where we're going you're gonna
see numbers you've seen the graphs
you're gonna see numbers and we'll be
able to let you know I will say that the
American public has been incredible for
the most part not at all cases but for
the most part so you'll be able to see
what's happening over the nest as we say
we had a 15 day period you'll be able to
tell a lot in a week or so not
everything but we'll be able to see over
a period of time and for all the parents
that are home right now this is a
question for dr. burns or dr. Adams who
are caring for their children and are
curious as to when my kids be able to go
back to school what do you think is a
realistic timeline well I think you know
most of all of those decisions are made
at the state and local government level
and each state and local government has
handled it differently that's why we put
out from the president federal federal
presidential guidance to every single
person about what we think is important
for the next two weeks and as we look at
that data we'll be able to see if it's
having an impact I think you've all seen
the modeling studies those were driven
by the modeling studies showing that you
add these things together they have a
bigger impact than separately and so
those are part of the decision-making we
had a whole group of modelers in
yesterday they're compositing all the
data together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously the acts of selflessness that
I am
seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine works or any of the
other things that they're looking at
that are not quite as far out but if
they work your numbers are going to come
down very rapidly so we'll see what
happens but there's a real chance they
might Sunday was taking photos with
supporters in gorging mass demonstration
and just yesterday presidents from
Brazil said and we should not be
surprised if we see him in the next few
days in a crowded subway in Sao Paulo or
in a bus in Rio because he is the
president it should view the people what
do you think about that what's your
message well he's a friend of mine
number one and number two we had dinner
the other night and everybody said he
was positive and he wasn't positive he
tested negative so that was I I was
quite happy when I heard that but I have
no message for a mother than he's doing
a good job in Brazil Brazil is very
popular encouraging math illustration
ideas boys I can't tell you about that I
don't know about that I have not heard
that he's doing a very good job Brazil
was very troubled before he got there
and he's the people loved him and
popular I think he's doing a very good
job
there are Americans who were traveling
abroad or essentially stuck unable to
come home we spoke to a good burn
ten women who Americans to work but we
spoke to ten American women who were in
Morocco for instance all the flights
have been canceled their hotel is
shutting down they literally have no
place to stay and no way to get home
they are asking you they're asking the
administration the US government for
help what can be done we know about it
we have groups we have a group of young
people in in Peru and we're working on
taking care of that with the military
evacuated take no not evacuation what
we're trying to get them out and you
know they got caught they were late with
their flights we gave them a period of
time they didn't make it but we're
looking to get them out with military
probably through the military we have a
group of young young people I think
young men or young people could be women
also with them from Alabama the great
state of Alabama and they're in Peru and
we're working on that right now trying
to get them out it's a large group it's
about 300 well we're gonna work it out
Jeff
the president's foreign policy related
questions your talk with the g7 leaders
earlier this week did you discuss
together ending or postponing the
Olympics yeah we discuss it as you know
Prime Minister Abbey was on the call and
that's a big decision for him and we
don't know what his decision is but we'd
live with his decision it's a tough
situation they've done an incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with the same thing that the
rest of the world got hit with
unexpectedly he has he has told us that
he has not made a decision as to what to
do so on foreign policy have you spoken
to the leaders of Saudi Arabia or
Russia and encourage them to stop this
glut of oil that is detected in the
market well the one thing I will tell
you is that from the standpoint you
always get a little bit torn because you
know until we became the leading
producer I was always for the person
driving the car and filling up the tank
of gas and you'd have gasoline and the
prices were if they were too high I
would always raise hell with OPEC and I
was always somebody that liked saying I
never thought I'd see 22 and 24 and 28
dollars a barrel but that's what we have
and in one way our consumer is very much
helped it's like it's like a massive tax
increase that's bigger than any tax
increase decreased that you could give
you know we can give all these big tax
cuts but they're paying so little for
gasoline but on the other hand it hurts
a great industry and a very powerful
industry so I spoke with numerous people
that have a lot to do with it and we
have a lot of power over the situation
and we're trying to find some kind of a
medium ground you know it's it's very
devastating to Russia because when you
look I mean the whole economy is based
on that and they have we have the lowest
oil prices in decades so it's very
devastating to Russia I would say it's
very bad for Saudi Arabia but they were
in a fight they were in a fight on price
they were in a fight on output and at
the at the appropriate time I'll get
involved you know the Carnival cruise
ships be used for well Mickey called up
and he said if you need them and we
haven't said yes I'll call Governor
Cuomo I'll I'll call Gavin from gavin
newsom governor from california I'll
call a few of the other governors
they're gonna bring it up today because
we're meeting through phone through
telephone telephonically as they say in
a little while at FEMA I'm going go to
FEMA from here well you could increase
places to stay let's say places to stay
if it works I mean you know I don't know
maybe people won't wanna but he made the
offer was a very generous offer and he
said that he has some ships that would
be ideally suited for what
and certainly they have a lot of rooms
they're big and they have a lot of rooms
so we appreciate it from Carnival wait
in the future will any American who
wants to test be able to get a test
because you're talking about not eating
a test right now if you're not showing
any symptoms but a lot I'm eating the
test for only getting tested if you're
showing symptoms but a lot of this well
you should only good
we should I didn't have any symptoms
that I got a test but I got a test
because you people were driving
everybody crazy so that's the only
reason I had no symptoms but I have a
test and my doctor told me don't get it
you don't need it everybody said you
don't need it but I had to do it because
the press was going crazy and then after
I got it they said you shouldn't have
gotten it you had no symptoms you know
the whole thing so in other words if you
get it it was no good but that's I'm a
unique case unfortunately but no people
that don't show symptoms and people that
have doctors that say they shouldn't get
it I would rely on that yeah I would
rely on very nicely do you consider the
term Chinese food racist no its food
that originates in China or it has no I
don't think it's racist I don't think
it's racist at all
on that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
vamp namely you are racist from
these complaints about Chinese parts
it's an alarming that major media
players just how close you are
consistently citing with foreign state
propaganda Islamic radicals and Latin
gangs and cartels anywhere right here at
the White House with direct access to
you and your team it amazes me when I
read the things that I read it amazes me
when I read the Wall Street Journal
which is always so negative it amazes me
when I read the New York Times is not
even I don't I barely read it you know
we don't distribute it in the White
House anymore in the same thing with the
Washington Post because you see I know
the truth and people out there in the
world they really don't know that they
don't know what it is they use different
slogans and different concepts for me
almost every week trying to catch
something last week it was all chaos you
see me there's no K I said no chaos I'm
the one telling everybody to be calm
there's no chaos at the White House we
have unbelievable professionals it's
really I mean I think I came up with the
term I hope I came up with the term but
it is fakeness it's more than fakeness
it's corruptness they're right stories
without calling anybody they write a
story today I had a couple of stories
where they never call me ever that I
know of at least nobody tells me they'll
write a story about me without even
asking my opinion on something it's
totally fake I've never seen I mean
there is a story in The Wall Street
Journal today about you know about how
we've done we've done a phenomenal job
on this
the governor is even even gavin newsom
who you know I'm usually fighting with
over the fires and I think you should do
a different kind of a job at the in the
forests and lots of things we've we
argue a lot but Gavin Newsom has been
very very generous generous Andrew Cuomo
has been really very generous I mean
they're saying we're doing a great job
and everybody's saying but then you read
this faint phony story in The Wall
Street Journal or where the Washington
Post is going wild lately I don't know
what happened to them I guess something
happened like we don't call them back or
whatever but the Washington Post these
are very dishonest media sources they're
very dishonest
and you know what someday hopefully in
five years I won't be here and that'll
be fine I will have done I think a great
job because I don't think anyone has
done as much in three and a half years
as I've done I don't think and the
administration this administration has
done a great job but the press is very
dishonest well I think they do I mean I
mean they are siding with they are
siding with China they are doing things
that they shouldn't be doing this I do
with many others China is the least of
it so why why they're doing this you'll
have to ask them but if we had an honest
media in this country our country would
be an even greater place so ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much we are
very excited about we are very excited
about in specifically what we talked
about with the chloroquine I think the I
think it could be something really
incredible it could totally depress the
times that we had mentioned wait excuse
me excuse me it could totally depressed
any time that we're talking about if it
works there are a lot of reasons that I
have to believe again dr. Han is the
expert but a lot of reasons that I would
have to think that it could have a very
positive effect or a positive effect
maybe not very but maybe maybe positive
I think it's to me very very exciting
and the beauty is I think I can say this
Dave the beauty is that these drugs have
been out there so they're really danger
part of the drugs especially chloroquine
it's been out there for years so we know
it's something that can be taken safely
so it's very important
[Music]
has asked us to expedite this and what I
want to assure you because of the
questions that were asked we want to
make sure that this is done well and
right for the American people
the president is right with an
off-the-shelf drug we do have a lot of
information about the side effects of
the drug so that really helps in terms
of expediting but but I want to show you
that we're working as quickly as we can
I don't want to speculate about a
timeline at this point with respect to
vaccines that's in phase one trial as I
mentioned we're expecting that to
proceed moving forward and we're worth
working with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development is
it possible phase 2 and phase 3 can be
fast-tracked that we might see a vaccine
before that year you get you said it
could potentially be you this is a
terrific question and we are really
trying hard at FDA to partner with great
industry great academic partners to do
exactly that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much supplies and they
other time Sumeet will be meeting
hopefully not for very long I mean I
would like to see this get cleared up
and we think we've to me this was a very
important conference because I really
think there's great potential here and a
lot of people are going to be trying it
soon like literally very soon literally
in a matter of days if not sooner in
some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it
this whole subject becomes a much more
pleasant subject so thank you all and
we'll we're going over to FEMA now so
I don't know who's going but we're going
to FEMA we're gonna be discussing with
the governors and lots of other people
now I think that's enough all right so
president Truong taking it a lot of
questions from the media once again
today is that really the big news today
with the FDA chief saying they that a
vaccine trial is expected to take about
12 months right now they are in the
initial stages of that if you just
joined in welcome everyone here the news
now and coronavirus now.com we are going
to replay that for you in about 10
minutes so you get to see it once again
in its entirety I want to show you the
big map